NXDOC-1914: document Web UI global settings and how to configure them (#1212)
nuxeo/doc.nuxeo.com-content: src/nxdoc/web-ui/web-ui-tutorials/web-ui-configuration-properties.md

---
title: 'HOWTO: Configure Web UI global settings'
description: Learn how to configure global Web UI settings.
review:
    comment: ''
    date: '2019-07-19'
    status: ok
toc: true
details:
    howto:
        excerpt: Learn how to configure global Web UI settings.
        level: Advanced
        tool: code
        topics: Web UI
labels:
    - nuxeo-web-ui
    - extension
    - customization
    - tutorial
tree_item_index: 650

---

{{! excerpt}}
Nuxeo Web UI provides a simple way to configure global settings in order to have consistent behaviour across the platform. These configurations are handled as a configuration extension.

> For more details please take a look to [HOWTO: Contribute to an Extension]({{page page='how-to-contribute-to-an-extension'}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details please take a look at [HOWTO: Contribute to an Extension]({{page page='how-to-contribute-to-an-extension'}}).
```

{{! /excerpt}}

## Default Settings

> The XML contribution for the configuration extension is located [here](https://github.com/nuxeo/nuxeo-web-ui/blob/master/plugin/web-ui/addon/src/main/resources/OSGI-INF/web-ui-properties.xml) and contains a set predefined default settings using `org.nuxeo.web.ui` namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The XML contribution for the configuration extension is located [here](https://github.com/nuxeo/nuxeo-web-ui/blob/master/plugin/web-ui/addon/src/main/resources/OSGI-INF/web-ui-properties.xml) and contains a set of predefined default settings using `org.nuxeo.web.ui` namespace.
```

For the moment, the default settings include:

> ### Enrichers

Reviewer 2: We could benefit a cross-page reference on https://doc.nuxeo.com/nxdoc/web-ui-performance/

    <property name="org.nuxeo.web.ui.enrichers.document">preview</property>
    <property name="org.nuxeo.web.ui.enrichers.document">favorites</property>
    <property name="org.nuxeo.web.ui.enrichers.document">subscribedNotifications</property>
    <property name="org.nuxeo.web.ui.enrichers.document">thumbnail</property>
    <property name="org.nuxeo.web.ui.enrichers.document">renditions</property>
    <property name="org.nuxeo.web.ui.enrichers.document">pendingTasks</property>
    <property name="org.nuxeo.web.ui.enrichers.document">runnableWorkflows</property>
    <property name="org.nuxeo.web.ui.enrichers.document">runningWorkflows</property>
    <property name="org.nuxeo.web.ui.enrichers.document">collections</property>
    <property name="org.nuxeo.web.ui.enrichers.document">audit</property>
    <property name="org.nuxeo.web.ui.enrichers.document">subtypes</property>
    <property name="org.nuxeo.web.ui.enrichers.document">tags</property>
    <property name="org.nuxeo.web.ui.enrichers.document">publications</property>
    <property name="org.nuxeo.web.ui.enrichers.blob" list="true">appLinks</property>

  </extension>
</component>
```

> ### Special HTTP Headers

Reviewer 2: idem

> In a similiar way, Nuxeo also makes use of special HTTP headers with the same general purpose: having more control on REST API calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a similiar way, Nuxeo also makes use of special HTTP headers with the same general purpose: to have more control on REST API calls.
```

Please consider [Special HTTP Headers]({{page page='special-http-headers'}}) in order to learn more about this concept and also to be aware of the available options.

By default, only the `fetch.document` HTTP header is defined in order to ensure that all the properties are being fetched for a given document.

```xml
<component name="org.nuxeo.web.ui.properties.contrib">
  <extension target="org.nuxeo.runtime.ConfigurationService" point="configuration">

     <!-- Properties to be fetched when loading current document, default 'properties' means all -->
    <property name="org.nuxeo.web.ui.fetch.document" list="true">properties</property>
    
  </extension>
</component>
```

### Date Formats
Since Nuxeo Web UI is an internationalized and localized application, there is a concern with language and culture. For this reason, it is possible to configure some date and time related formats.

By default, the `dateFormat` and `dateTimeFormat` are defined according to Moment.js syntax (see more [here](https://momentjs.com/)), since it is the library used by Web UI to manage time.

> Also, a `firstDayOfWeek` is considered in order to display a date picker, for example, according to the cultural needs. By not having that variable defined, it will consider the most common case that is Sunday. An example of its usage can be found on [Nuxeo Date Picker](https://github.com/nuxeo/nuxeo-elements/blob/master/ui/widgets/nuxeo-date-picker.js#L86-L100).

Reviewer 2: For githhub code link, better point to a tag, else the link will become outdated as soon as we touch the code.

Considering the doc targets 10.10 version, better point to this release. IRRC, the github code links will or should be reviewed for next release.

Author: Fair enough. By pointing for 10.10 we'll lose the most recent configs (S3 and maxItems)

Reviewer 2: You are right, forget it

> Also, a `firstDayOfWeek` is considered in order to display a date picker, for example, according to the cultural needs. By not having that variable defined, it will consider the most common case that is Sunday. An example of its usage can be found on [Nuxeo Date Picker](https://github.com/nuxeo/nuxeo-elements/blob/master/ui/widgets/nuxeo-date-picker.js#L86-L100).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, a `firstDayOfWeek` is considered in order to display a date picker, for example, according to cultural needs. If the variable is not customized, it will defaulto to the most common case which is Sunday. An example of its usage can be found on [Nuxeo Date Picker](https://github.com/nuxeo/nuxeo-elements/blob/master/ui/widgets/nuxeo-date-picker.js#L86-L100).
```

The first defines if the S3 Direct Upload is used and the second will define the maximum number of results displayed by the Page Provider.

```xml
<component name="org.nuxeo.web.ui.properties.contrib">
  <extension target="org.nuxeo.runtime.ConfigurationService" point="configuration">

     <!-- S3 Direct upload -->
    <property name="org.nuxeo.web.ui.s3.useDirectUpload">${nuxeo.s3storage.useDirectUpload:=false}</property>

    <!-- Max Results for Tables, Grids and Lists plugged on a Nuxeo Page Provider. Falls back on elasticsearch max result window by default. -->
    <property name="org.nuxeo.web.ui.listingMaxItems">${org.nuxeo.elasticsearch.provider.maxResultWindow:=10000}</property>
    
  </extension>
</component>
```

## Customize Settings
As any other configuration, the best way to create new settings or change/override the default ones, is to contribute a new extension as explained here [HOWTO: Contribute to an Extension]({{page page='how-to-contribute-to-an-extension'}}).

{{#> callout type='warning' }}

> Overriding default settings must be done in a conscious way, since it will change the default/expected behavior of the platform, or at least, of some components, depending on which settings are changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Overriding default settings must be done in a conscious way, since it will change the default/expected behavior of the platform or, at least, of some components, depending on which settings are changed.
```

{{/callout}}

## Usage Examples
When Web UI is build these settings will be available to be used (details [here](https://github.com/nuxeo/nuxeo-web-ui/blob/master/plugin/web-ui/addon/src/main/resources/web/nuxeo.war/ui/index.jsp#L113)).

> The recommend way to access and use these settings can be found in several examples already implemented by Web UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The recommended way to access and use these settings can be found in several examples already implemented by Web UI.
```

### Nuxeo App
```javascript
 _computeHeaders() {
  const headers = {
    'translate-directoryEntry': 'label',
  };

  const fetch = (Nuxeo.UI && Nuxeo.UI.config && Nuxeo.UI.config.fetch) || {};

  // add required fetchers
  const required = { document: ['lock'], directoryEntry: ['parent'], task: ['actors'] };

  Object.keys(required).forEach((k) => {
    fetch[k] = fetch[k] || [];
    required[k].forEach((v) => {
      if (!fetch[k].includes(v)) {
        fetch[k].push(v);
      }
    });
  });

  // generate fetch headers
  Object.keys(fetch).forEach((f) => {
    headers[`fetch-${f}`] = fetch[f].join(',');
  });

  return headers;

> },

Reviewer 2: It is surely important to tell that a `xxx` prop is available under `Nuxeo.UI && Nuxeo.UI.config && Nuxeo.UI.config.xxx`.
But I am not really sure we should go that deep in term of impl details.

Author: I may drop the `Nuxeo App` example, but keep the `formatDate`, since it is simpler and may help people to understand how to use these configs.

Reviewer 2: :+1: (was just my feeling anw, you can bypass it ;)

Reviewer: I get what @guirenard is saying, but, as someone new to Nuxeo ecosystem, I find this more complex/complete example useful.
